---
layout: post
title: Continuing the mixing journey
category: articles
---

# Mixing: hitting the first wall

I have been mixing a lot of different tracks from puremix,
and started to stray from the video tutorials.
Step-by-step video tutorials have a tendency to boost your confidence:
you get good results despite having no real idea of what you are doing.

Deviating from the prescribed steps quickly made it clear that I don't
even have a reasonable idea of what sounds good in the first place. I
don't know if a mix is punchy or not, I don't know if a snare sounds
good in context of a beat or a whole song, I don't know if the bass is
loud enough compared to the kick.  Part of that is that I don't listen to
this kind of music very often, part of that is me mistrusting my taste,
and part of that is a lack of ear training and knowledge.

I am following the advice of some professional mix engineers on IRC,
and try to make complete mixes of songs up front, before digging into
the tutorials. This is excruciatingly hard, but probably the best way
to make progress right now. I am still figuring out how to best assess
my results, and one good way I found is to remix the same part in a
variety of ways, rendering out the different results as I go along,
and listening back to them later on, both on headphones with waves NX,
on headphones without waves NX, on laptop speakers and on my home
speakers.  I realize that all three indicate different things in the
mix. It is very easy to be fooled on the headphones.

I am also doing "mixes" of maschine songs. The disheartening part
about this is that usually, my mix is worse than the original
"straight out of maschine" mix. I hear things I don't like about the
maschine mix, but I am unable to improve it without losing the "soul"
of the piece.  The good thing about realizing this is that I have the
exact same problem when I try to polish / finish my own songs.
